In this video, we'll go through query plans for aggregation.
Aggregation is an execution planning strategy that spark planner uses.
Spark planner selects an aggregate physical operator
for an aggregate logical operator in a logical query plan.
It sounds a lot, but let's go through our code.
Let's actually go back to the join query plan and we'll operate a aggregation there.
So here we're going to aggregate on the region,
by region column, and let's do a count on this,
then we'll do a explain.
The group-by operator, groups the rows in a dataset by column.
Then scan plan projects the columns in
need from the original RDD and loads them into unsafe row.
So right here to FileScan.
Reversing the file scan parquet from the local saved the files like how we did before.
So this comes from facilities,
and this is a parquet,
then we're only reading the Region: string.
We also have this HashAggregate.
It's essential to build a tungsten aggregation
iterator to process the aggregation for a given partition.
Tungsten aggregation iterator operates directly on
unsafe row to make aggregation faster and more efficient.
After the aggregation by partition is done,
exchange plans shuffles the data and the by keys.
Here we chose region for our keys.